---
layout: post
title:	It begins
date:   2016-04-26 20:00:00 +0100
categories: general
tags: makers
---

Yesterday evening was the induction to the precourse at Makers Academy. During the part-time precourse, we're expected to get to the same skill-level as each other before starting the full-time course, so that trivial things like basic syntax and environment setup don't hold us back. I met some of the other students too, of course. They're all super friendly and keen (I expected no less) with very varied backgrounds &mdash; one student sells maps, which I think is amazing because it's so damn niche.

I finally had a chance to look at the materials after work today. Command line and version control is up first? Easy peasy, I use these all the time! But hold up &mdash; what does `touch` do? What about `tail`? And `cat`?

<blockquote class="instagram-media" data-instgrm-captioned data-instgrm-version="6" style=" background:#FFF; border:0; border-radius:3px; box-shadow:0 0 1px 0 rgba(0,0,0,0.5),0 1px 10px 0 rgba(0,0,0,0.15); margin: 2rem auto; max-width:400px; padding:0; width:99.375%;"><div style="padding:8px;"> <div style=" background:#F8F8F8; line-height:0; margin-top:40px; padding:50.0% 0; text-align:center; width:100%;"> <div style=" background:url(data:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAACwAAAAsCAMAAAApWqozAAAAGFBMVEUiIiI9PT0eHh4gIB4hIBkcHBwcHBwcHBydr+JQAAAACHRSTlMABA4YHyQsM5jtaMwAAADfSURBVDjL7ZVBEgMhCAQBAf//42xcNbpAqakcM0ftUmFAAIBE81IqBJdS3lS6zs3bIpB9WED3YYXFPmHRfT8sgyrCP1x8uEUxLMzNWElFOYCV6mHWWwMzdPEKHlhLw7NWJqkHc4uIZphavDzA2JPzUDsBZziNae2S6owH8xPmX8G7zzgKEOPUoYHvGz1TBCxMkd3kwNVbU0gKHkx+iZILf77IofhrY1nYFnB/lQPb79drWOyJVa/DAvg9B/rLB4cC+Nqgdz/TvBbBnr6GBReqn/nRmDgaQEej7WhonozjF+Y2I/fZou/qAAAAAElFTkSuQmCC); display:block; height:44px; margin:0 auto -44px; position:relative; top:-22px; width:44px;"></div></div> <p style=" margin:8px 0 0 0; padding:0 4px;"> <a href="https://www.instagram.com/p/BEPI6ivkkB7/" style=" color:#000; font-family:Arial,sans-serif; font-size:14px; font-style:normal; font-weight:normal; line-height:17px; text-decoration:none; word-wrap:break-word;" target="_blank">Cat coaster</a></p> <p style=" color:#c9c8cd; font-family:Arial,sans-serif; font-size:14px; line-height:17px; margin-bottom:0; margin-top:8px; overflow:hidden; padding:8px 0 7px; text-align:center; text-overflow:ellipsis; white-space:nowrap;">A photo posted by Vannio (@vannio) on <time style=" font-family:Arial,sans-serif; font-size:14px; line-height:17px;" datetime="2016-04-15T21:48:20+00:00">Apr 15, 2016 at 2:48pm PDT</time></p></div></blockquote>
<script async defer src="//platform.instagram.com/en_US/embeds.js"></script>

This cat is **not** related to `cat`, unfortunately. `cat` is actually short for concatenate. I learnt something new already, even as a *somewhat* experienced developer, and I've only been looking at this stuff for an hour.

I skipped ahead a little (oops) just to see the challenge I'm working towards this week &mdash; it's some kind of murder mystery gamified task. Bring it on, I love a good puzzle.
